---
layout: article
title: Using Quattor with APT based distributions
category: news
author: James Adams
---

Being driven by the needs of the community running it, Quattor has historically been well supported on <abbr title="RedHat Enterprise Linux">RHEL</abbr>-like distributions such as [Scientific Linux](https://www.scientificlinux.org/) (as well as some specific support for Solaris), but much less so on many other distributions. As many sites in the community have started to offer private cloud resources, we have seen a desire to support distributions with a different heritage.

As the client-side code is written in Perl, targeting a new environment should be limited to extending support to cover the standard tooling of that environment. Our now retired Jenkins server ran on Debian, so we can be confident that we have no hard dependencies on <abbr title="Enterprise Linux">EL</abbr>. However code running without errors does not equal being able to configure a real host, the biggest and most obvious difference being that of the package manager.

At RAL we have been focusing on targeting the following Debian-derived distributions (in priority order)
* Cumulus Linux
* Ubuntu LTS releases
* Debian Stable

The most interesting (and highest priority for us) is Cumulus Linux.

# Cumulus Linux
We now have several implementations of a standards-based network architecture at RAL comprised of Open Ethernet running Layer-3 ECMP to edge hosts, delivering dynamic routing, massive scaling and VLAN and VXLAN offload.
The proof of concept is built from a mixture of [Mellanox SN2100 and SN2700 switches](http://www.mellanox.com/page/products_dyn?product_family=251&mtag=sn2000) running [Cumulus Linux](https://cumulusnetworks.com/products/cumulus-linux/).

This has the potential to be a complex system which requires consistent, coordinated configuration across multiple devices and where breakage could cause a very significant loss of service &mdash; a job for Quattor!

Our goal is to manage the network devices with the same tooling and processes as any other host in our data-centres, avoiding the silo of network management expertise currently holding back our networks from being as agile as they could be.

# Areas of Work

## Bare Metal Installation
AII's DHCP and PXE switch management tooling is generally applicable.
However, for automated deployment there only currently exists `aii-ks` for producing Kickstart files.

### ONIE
OpenEthernet switches provide [ONIE](https://opencomputeproject.github.io/onie/) for initial image deployment.
This can be controlled with a straight-forward DHCP configuration and should require minimal changes to support well.

### Preseeding
Ubuntu and Debian both support automated installation with [Preseeding](https://www.debian.org/releases/stable/amd64/apb.html.en).
Ubuntu also allows for a limited form of [Kickstart compatibility](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KickstartCompatibility) (aka. Kickseed).

## Package management
Across all the Debian-derived distributions we are looking at `apt-get` is the standard mechanism for installation of new software packages and routine operating system updates.

A technology preview of the `ncm-spma` backend has been available (but not packaged) since the 17.7 release.
As of Quattor 23.6 this is now ready for use.

## Network configuration
The current network component (ncm-network) is very tied to RHEL's init-script network configuration system.


# Trying things out

Install lots of Perl dependencies, this list should cover both run-time dependencies as well as those used by unit tests.
```
sudo apt-get -y install \
    libcdb-file-perl \
    libconfig-general-perl \
    libconfig-properties-perl \
    libconfig-tiny-perl \
    libcrypt-ssleay-perl \
    libdata-compare-perl \
    libdata-structure-util-perl \
    libenum-perl \
    libfile-touch-perl \
    libfile-which-perl \
    libgit-repository-perl \
    libio-string-perl \
    libjson-any-perl \
    libjson-xs-perl \
    liblwp-authen-negotiate-perl \
    libnetaddr-ip-perl \
    libparallel-forkmanager-perl \
    libperl-critic-perl \
    libreadonly-perl \
    librest-client-perl \
    libset-scalar-perl \
    libtaint-runtime-perl \
    libtemplate-perl \
    libtest-deep-perl \
    libtest-mockmodule-perl \
    libtest-mockobject-perl \
    libtest-nowarnings-perl \
    libtest-pod-perl \
    libtext-diff-perl \
    libtext-glob-perl \
    libversion-perl \
    libxml-parser-perl \
    libxml-simple-perl \
    libyaml-libyaml-perl
```
